Fix installation docs to include better install instructions (#29)
falcosecurity/falco-website: content/docs/installation.md

weight: 2
---

Falco can be installed via several methods based on your specific requirements. The most common methods are:

- Install Falco inside of a Kubernetes cluster to monitor the cluster, worker nodes, and running containers for abnormal behavior. This is done by deploying a daemonset to the Kubernetes cluster.
- Install Falco directly on a Linux host. This can be done for a variety of reasons:
    - To monitor containers running inside of Kubernetes. Installing directly on the worker node OS provides an additional level of isolation from the applications running in Kubernetes and users of the Kubernetes API.
    - To monitor containers running directly on the Linux host or containers running under another platform such as Cloud Foundry, or Mesosphere DC/OS.

>     - To monitor an application running directly on the Linux host (ie non containerized workloads).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - To monitor an application running directly on the Linux host (ie., non containerized workloads).
```

For platforms such as Google's Container Optimized OS & GKE, where access to the underlying kernel is limited, see the [GKE section(#GKE)](#GKE) below.

### Downloading the Kernel Module via HTTPs

The kernel module can be prebuilt and provided to the Falco pods via HTTPs. The easiest way to build the kernel module is to deploy Falco on a node with the required kernel headers, have Falco (via the `falco-probe-loader` script) build the kernel module, then copy the kernel module out of the pod or container. By default the kernel module is copied to `/root/.sysdig/`.

> `SYSDIG_PROBE_URL` - Set this environment variable for the Falco pod to override the default host for prebuilt kernel modules. This should be only the host portion of the URL without the trailing slash, ie `https://myhost.mydomain.com`. The kernel modules should be placed in directory `/stable/sysdig-probe-binaries/` and named as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SYSDIG_PROBE_URL` - Set this environment variable for the Falco pod to override the default host for prebuilt kernel modules. This should be only the host portion of the URL without the trailing slash - ie., `https://myhost.mydomain.com`. The kernel modules should be placed in directory `/stable/sysdig-probe-binaries/` and named as follows:
```

`falco-probe-${falco_version}-$(uname -i)-$(uname -r)-{md5sum of kernel config}.ko`

The `falco-probe-loader` script will name the module in this format by default. 

### Helm

Helm is one of the preferred methods for installing Falco on Kubernetes. The [Falco Helm chart](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco) provides an extensive set of [configuration values](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco#configuration) to start Falco with a variety of different configurations.

Assuming you have Helm installed and running in your cluster, to deploy Falco with the default configuration simply run:
```shell
helm install --name falco stable/falco
```

To remove Falco from your cluster run:
```
helm delete falco
```

#### Kubernetes Response Engine

> Using the Falco Helm chart is the easiest way to deploy the [Falco Kuberentes Response Engine (KRE)](https://github.com/falcosecurity/kubernetes-response-engine). The KRE provides the ability to send Falco alerts to a messaging service such as NATS, AWS SNS, or Google Pub/Sub. This allows Falco alerts to be processed by subcribers of the respective messaging services. Refer to the `integrations.*` [configuration options](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco#configuration) of the Helm chart to enable this integration. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the Falco Helm chart is the easiest way to deploy the [Falco Kubernetes Response Engine (KRE)](https://github.com/falcosecurity/kubernetes-response-engine). The KRE provides the ability to send Falco alerts to a messaging service such as NATS, AWS SNS, or Google Pub/Sub. This allows Falco alerts to be processed by subscribers of the respective messaging services. Refer to the `integrations.*` [configuration options](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/falco#configuration) of the Helm chart to enable this integration. 
```

The KRE also allows you to deploy security playbooks (via serverless functions) that can take action when Falco rules are violated. Refer to the [Response Engine documentation](https://github.com/falcosecurity/kubernetes-response-engine/tree/master/playbooks) on how to deploy the included playbooks.

### DaemonSet Manifests
To run Falco as a Kubernetes [DaemonSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/daemonset/), follow the instructions below. These are the `generic` instructions for Kubernetes. See below for Kubernetes platform specific instructions.

1. Clone the [Falco repo](https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/) and change to the directory with the manifests.
```shell
git clone https://github.com/falcosecurity/falco/
cd falco/integrations/k8s-using-daemonset
```
2. Create a service account and RBAC permissions which Falco will run as. This will allow Falco to connect to the Kubernetes API server to fetch resource metadata. 
```shell
kubectl apply -f k8s-with-rbac/falco-account.yaml
```

> 3. Create a service for the Falco pods. This will allow Falco to recieve [Kubernetes Audit Log Events](event-sources/kubernetes-audit). If you're not planning on using this feature, you can skip this step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Create a service for the Falco pods. This will allow Falco to receive [Kubernetes Audit Log Events](event-sources/kubernetes-audit). If you're not planning on using this feature, you can skip this step.
```

```shell
kubectl apply -f k8s-with-rbac/falco-service.yaml
```

> 4. The Daemon Set also relies on a Kubernetes ConfigMap to store the Falco configuration and make the configuration available to the Falco Pods. This allows you to manage custom configuration without rebuilding and redeploying the underlying Pods. In order to create the ConfigMap you'll need to first need to copy the required configuration from their location in this GitHub repo to the `k8s-with-rbac/falco-config/` directory (please note that you will need to create the k8s-with-rbac/falco-config directory). Any modification of the configuration should be performed on these copies rather than the original files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. The Daemon Set also relies on a Kubernetes ConfigMap to store the Falco configuration and make the configuration available to the Falco Pods. This allows you to manage custom configuration without rebuilding and redeploying the underlying Pods. In order to create the ConfigMap you'll need to first copy the required configuration from their location in this GitHub repo to the `k8s-with-rbac/falco-config/` directory (please note that you will need to create the k8s-with-rbac/falco-config directory). Any modification of the configuration should be performed on these copies rather than the original files.
```

```shell
mkdir -p k8s-with-rbac/falco-config
k8s-using-daemonset$ cp ../../falco.yaml k8s-with-rbac/falco-config/
k8s-using-daemonset$ cp ../../rules/falco_rules.* k8s-with-rbac/falco-config/
k8s-using-daemonset$ cp ../../rules/k8s_audit_rules.yaml k8s-with-rbac/falco-config/
```

> 5. Any custom rules for your environment can be added to into the `falco_rules.local.yaml` file and they will be picked up by Falco at start time. You can also modify the `falco.yaml` file to change any [configuration options](configuration/) required for your deployment. Create the configmap with the below command.

Reviewer 2: Add the custom rules for your environment to the `falco_rules.local.yaml` file and they will be picked up by Falco at start time. You can also modify the `falco.yaml` file to change any [configuration options](configuration/) required for your deployment. Create the configMap as follows:

```shell
kubectl create configmap falco-config --from-file=k8s-with-rbac/falco-config
```

> 6. With the dependencies of the configmap created, the daemonset can now be created.

Reviewer 2: With the dependencies of the configMap created, you can now create the DaemonSet.

```shell
kubectl apply -f k8s-with-rbac/falco-daemonset-configmap.yaml
```

> 7. In order to confirm that Falco started correctly. You can check the status of the Falco pods by checking the logs.

Reviewer 2: To verify that Falco started correctly, check the status of the Falco pods in the corresponding log files.

```shell
kubectl logs -l app=falco
```

### Minkube

> The easiest way to use Falco on Kubernetes in a local environment is on [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/hello-minikube/). Both the Kubernetes YAML manifests, and the Helm chart are regularly tested with Minikube.

Reviewer 2: Both the Kubernetes YAML manifests and the Helm chart are regularly tested with Minikube.

#### Minikube Kernel Module

When running `minikube` with the default `--driver` arguments, Minikube creates a VM that runs the various Kubernetes services and a container framework to run Pods, etc. Generally, it's not possible to build the Falco kernel module directly on the Minikube VM, as the VM doesn't include the kernel headers for the running kernel.

To address this, starting with falco 0.13.1 we pre-build kernel modules for the last 10 Minikube versions and make them available at https://s3.amazonaws.com/download.draios.com. This allows the download fallback step to succeed with a loadable kernel module.

> Going forward, we'll continue to support the most recent 10 Minikube versions with each new Falco release. We also keep previously built kernel modules around for download, so we will continue to have limited historical support as well.

Reviewer 2: Going forward, we'll continue to support 10 most recent versions of Minikube with each new Falco release. We currently retain previously-built kernel modules for download, so we will continue to provide limited historical support as well.

### GKE

> Google Kubernetes Engine's (GKE) default operating system for worker node pools is Container-Optimized OS (COS), a security enhanced operating system that limits access to certain parts of the underlying OS. Because of these security enhancements, Falco cannot insert its kernel module inorder to process events for system calls. COS does provide the ability to leverage eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to provide the stream of system calls to the Falco engine. eBPF is currently only supported on GKE and COS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Kubernetes Engine's (GKE) default operating system for worker node pools is Container-Optimized OS (COS), a security enhanced operating system that limits access to certain parts of the underlying OS. Because of these security enhancements, Falco cannot insert its kernel module in order to process events for system calls. COS does provide the ability to leverage eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to provide the stream of system calls to the Falco engine. eBPF is currently only supported on GKE and COS.
```

#### Enabling eBPF Support

> Falco can be configured to use eBPF by setting the environment variable `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to an empty value (ie `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE=""`). When this environment variable is set, the `falco-probe-loader` script will attempt to download the kernel headers for the appropriate version of COS, and then compile the appropriate eBPF probe. Alternatively, you can set `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to the path of an existing eBPF probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falco can be configured to use eBPF by setting the environment variable `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to an empty value (ie., `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE=""`). When this environment variable is set, the `falco-probe-loader` script will attempt to download the kernel headers for the appropriate version of COS, and then compile the appropriate eBPF probe. Alternatively, you can set `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to the path of an existing eBPF probe.
```

If using Helm, you can enable eBPF by setting the `ebpf.enable` configuration option.
```shell
helm install --name falco stable/falco --set ebpf.enabled=true
```

If using the provided daemonset manifests, you can uncomment the following lines in the daemonset file.

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```yaml
```

          env:
          - name: SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE
            value: ""
```

## Linux

> Falco can be installed directly on Linux via a scritped install, package managers, or configuration management tools like Ansible. Installing Falco directly on the host provides the following:

Reviewer 2: Install Falco directly on Linux via a scripted install, package managers, or configuration management tools like Ansible. Installing Falco directly on the host provides:

    - To monitor containers running inside of Kubernetes. Installing directly on the worker node OS provides an additional level of isolation from the applications running in Kubernetes and users of the Kubernetes API.
    - To monitor containers running directly on the Linux host or containers running under another platform such as Cloud Foundry, or Mesosphere DC/OS.
    - To monitor an application running directly on the Linux host (ie., non containerized workloads).

## Kubernetes

The default method to run Falco on Kubernetes is to use a Daemonset. Falco supports a variety of installation methods depending on your deployment methods of choice and underlying Kubernetes version. The default installation includes support for system call events via a kernel module and is thus dependent on the underlying operating system for the worker nodes. Installing the appropriate kernel headers on the worker nodes will allow Falco to dynamically build (and `insmod`) the kernel module on pod start. Falco also provides a number of prebuilt modules for common distributions and kernels. Falco will automatically attempt to download a prebuilt module if module compilation fails. 

> For platforms such as Google's Container Optimized OS & GKE, where access to the underlying kernel is limited, see the [GKE section(#GKE)](#GKE) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For platforms such as Google's Container Optimized OS & GKE, where access to the underlying kernel is limited, see the (GKE section)[#GKE] below.
```

For platforms such as Google's Container Optimized OS & GKE, where access to the underlying kernel is limited, see the [GKE section](#GKE) below.

### Downloading the Kernel Module via HTTPs

Use HTTPs to pre-build and provide the kernel module to the Falco pods. The easiest way to build the kernel module is as follows:

1. Deploy Falco on a node with the required kernel headers.
2. Use the `falco-probe-loader` script on Falco to build the kernel module.
3. Move the kernel module from the pod or container.
    By default, the kernel module is copied to `/root/.sysdig/`.

> `SYSDIG_PROBE_URL` - Set this environment variable for the Falco pod to override the default host for prebuilt kernel modules. This should be only the host portion of the URL without the trailing slash - ie., `https://myhost.mydomain.com`. The kernel modules should be placed in directory `/stable/sysdig-probe-binaries/` and named as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`SYSDIG_PROBE_URL` - Set this environment variable for the Falco pod to override the default host for prebuilt kernel modules. This should be only the host portion of the URL without the trailing slash - ie., `https://myhost.mydomain.com`. Copy the kernel modules to the `/stable/sysdig-probe-binaries/` directory and name it as follows:
```

```shell
kubectl logs -l app=falco
```

### Minkube

The easiest way to use Falco on Kubernetes in a local environment is on [Minikube](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tutorials/hello-minikube/). Both the Kubernetes YAML manifests and the Helm chart are regularly tested with Minikube.

#### Minikube Kernel Module

When running `minikube` with the default `--driver` arguments, Minikube creates a VM that runs the various Kubernetes services and a container framework to run Pods, etc. Generally, it's not possible to build the Falco kernel module directly on the Minikube VM, as the VM doesn't include the kernel headers for the running kernel.

To address this, starting with falco 0.13.1 we pre-build kernel modules for the last 10 Minikube versions and make them available at https://s3.amazonaws.com/download.draios.com. This allows the download fallback step to succeed with a loadable kernel module.

Going forward, we'll continue to support 10 most recent versions of Minikube with each new Falco release. We currently retain previously-built kernel modules for download, so we will continue to provide limited historical support as well.

### GKE

> Google Kubernetes Engine's (GKE) default operating system for worker node pools is Container-Optimized OS (COS), a security enhanced operating system that limits access to certain parts of the underlying OS. Because of these security enhancements, Falco cannot insert its kernel module in order to process events for system calls. COS does provide the ability to leverage eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to provide the stream of system calls to the Falco engine. eBPF is currently only supported on GKE and COS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE) uses Container-Optimized OS (COS) as the default operating system for its worker node pools. COS is a security-enhanced operating system that limits access to certain parts of the underlying OS. Because of this security constraint, Falco cannot insert its kernel module to process events for system calls. However, COS provides the ability to leverage eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) to supply the stream of system calls to the Falco engine. eBPF is currently supported only on GKE and COS.
```

#### Enabling eBPF Support

> Falco can be configured to use eBPF by setting the environment variable `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to an empty value (ie., `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE=""`). When this environment variable is set, the `falco-probe-loader` script will attempt to download the kernel headers for the appropriate version of COS, and then compile the appropriate eBPF probe. Alternatively, you can set `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to the path of an existing eBPF probe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Falco can use eBPF with minimal configuration changes. To do so, set the `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` environment variable to an empty value: `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE=""`. Setting this environment variable will trigger the `falco-probe-loader` script to download the kernel headers for the appropriate version of COS, and then compile the appropriate eBPF probe. Alternatively, you can set `SYSDIG_BPF_PROBE` to the path of an existing eBPF probe.
```
